README.md, before:

# Spike: SPIKE: How do we manage manifest files between AWS and GCE


> The builds of GCE and AWS are more different that we would like when
> we deploy CF. The constraints are largely introduced by GCE and we would prefer
> not to degrade AWS in order to accommodate GCE. Having said that we would also
> like to minimise the amount of maintenance work that is required for the manifest file.
>
> The purpose of this spike is to find out if there is a clean way to manage
> the common areas of the manifest file while at the same time allowing
> divergence where it is necessary for us to deploy to GCE.
>
> **Acceptance Criteria**
> This is spike is complete when we have:
> - one or more options that we could implement in order to manage the manifest files for AWS and GCE
> - a prototype of how this would work

# Spike analysis

## Desired features

Some mininum features:

 * To be able to perform interpolation of variables, to allow us to:
   * Predefine a set of variables which can be reused in the config.
   * Refer to other parts of the YAML file

 * Allow us to split the configuration in different files in ordet to:
   * Implement some kind of inclusion logic.
   * Potentially split:
     - name
     - director_uuid
     - releases
     - networks
     - resource\_pools
     - disk_pools
     - properties
     - jobs/*...
       - api.yml
       - dea.yml
       - health_manager.yml
       - loggregator.yml
       - nats.yml
       - uaa.yml
       - ...

 * Allow us to separate the configuration of different platforms. E.g.:
   * Different resource pools for AWS and GCE

 * Provide a way to extract information from terraform.

Additionally to:

 * Be able to inject custom variables as arguments (e.g. environment)
 * Call a external script to get some info (e.g. `bosh status --uuid`)
 * Keep the original structure and order of the YAML.


## Generic templating engines

The idea is just use some kind of templating engine to render the YAML file:

 * ERB for ruby
 * jinja2 for python, etc.

Pros:
 * More extensible, we can program additional features and used advanced logic.
 * We can add code inline in the templates.
 * We can do it in a way that we keep the original structure.

Cons:
 * Not natively designed for YAML. Access to other yaml values is not natural and requires
   some development code.

### Simple example

[This template is a basic example of ERB](https://gist.github.com/frodenas/6711234bab7a28d422b4)

### Proof of Concept: ERB

In the `erb/` folder we provide a script `myspiff.rb` to merge multiple files.

This script receives a list of files to processed in order, supporting these types:

  * `*.yml` plain yaml files,  will be loaded directly.
  * `*.erb.yml` ERB yaml files, will be processed by ERB and then loaded as YAML.
  * `*.rb` plain ruby, it will be evaluated directly. Good to define some variables.

Features:

 * Multiple files can be used to create a new manifest, the YAML structure will be simply loaded and merged
 * Search other YAML values:
    * A function called `search_yaml_values` allows search any yaml value in the processed files.
 * Does not keep the original structure, since the yaml is parsed.


To test it, check `erb/cf/` folder. You can run it with:

```
make erb
less erb/cf/generated.manifest-aws.yml
```


## Spiff

It is the tool used by cloudfoundry, but it is still in the incubator.

References:
 * [Blog describing how to work with spiff](https://blog.starkandwayne.com/2015/03/31/decomposing-bosh-manifests-with-spiff/)
 * [Spiff repository](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/spiff)
 * [Templates of offitial CF release using spiff](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release/tree/master/templates), and [script which calls them](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release/blob/master/generate_deployment_manifest)


Pros:
 * YAML native, with primitives to read different values.
 * Specific functions for CF: ip allocation, etc.
 * CF people use it in the official CF release.

Cons:
 * A little bit difficult to use and learn.
 * Buggy. Several bugs, like [this one](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/spiff/issues/27)
 * Does not keep the original structure and comments.
 * They say that is NOT being active development.
   > NOTE: Active development on spiff is currently paused, including Pull Requests. Very severe issues will be addressed, and we will still be actively responding to requests for help via Issues
 * Its future is not clear, and [some users abandon it](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/spiff/issues/27#issuecomment-56316106):
   > I've personally stopped using spiff for my own projects. I've found it's easier to just manage a single manifest file and force myself to keep that deployment manifest simple.
   >
   > Spiff is great when it's used for really simple things or internally-managed plumbing, but when you get into more complicated things like cf-release, with its many use-cases, it explodes in complexity. The potential for "wrong answers" from spiff increases, which is scary for deployment manifests.

### Proof of concept

In the folder `spiff/` we include two examples: `cf` and `bosh`.


The most complete example is `cf`. Comments about the code:

 * Spiff is called from `spiff/Makefile` tasks.
   * The files must be in order
   * Spiff evaluates from the last file to the first, merging the references backwards.
 * Terraform values are extracted by creating a terraform template in the `common/` file
 * jobs are split in multiple files in `spiff/cf/jobs/*.yml`
   * They use the feature `<<: (merge)` to include previous definitions (jobs and properties) in other files.
   * See `spiff/cf/jobs/nats.yml` for a more complex example.
 * The `spiff/cf/cf-manifest-main.yml` just selects the yaml nodes we want to keep in the final file.
 * `spiff/cf/cf-manifest-common.yml`: Common code skeleton
   * Properties are merged from other stubs using `<<: (merge)`
   * Example of string interpolation in the domain value.
 * The `director_uuid.yml` is generated by the Makefile
 * `cf-manifes-{gce,aws}.yml` have the specific values of each platform.

Commit message:

Add reference to question 'is spiff dead?' in cf-dev

README.md, after:

# Spike: SPIKE: How do we manage manifest files between AWS and GCE


> The builds of GCE and AWS are more different that we would like when
> we deploy CF. The constraints are largely introduced by GCE and we would prefer
> not to degrade AWS in order to accommodate GCE. Having said that we would also
> like to minimise the amount of maintenance work that is required for the manifest file.
>
> The purpose of this spike is to find out if there is a clean way to manage
> the common areas of the manifest file while at the same time allowing
> divergence where it is necessary for us to deploy to GCE.
>
> **Acceptance Criteria**
> This is spike is complete when we have:
> - one or more options that we could implement in order to manage the manifest files for AWS and GCE
> - a prototype of how this would work

# Spike analysis

## Desired features

Some mininum features:

 * To be able to perform interpolation of variables, to allow us to:
   * Predefine a set of variables which can be reused in the config.
   * Refer to other parts of the YAML file

 * Allow us to split the configuration in different files in ordet to:
   * Implement some kind of inclusion logic.
   * Potentially split:
     - name
     - director_uuid
     - releases
     - networks
     - resource\_pools
     - disk_pools
     - properties
     - jobs/*...
       - api.yml
       - dea.yml
       - health_manager.yml
       - loggregator.yml
       - nats.yml
       - uaa.yml
       - ...

 * Allow us to separate the configuration of different platforms. E.g.:
   * Different resource pools for AWS and GCE

 * Provide a way to extract information from terraform.

Additionally to:

 * Be able to inject custom variables as arguments (e.g. environment)
 * Call a external script to get some info (e.g. `bosh status --uuid`)
 * Keep the original structure and order of the YAML.


## Generic templating engines

The idea is just use some kind of templating engine to render the YAML file:

 * ERB for ruby
 * jinja2 for python, etc.

Pros:
 * More extensible, we can program additional features and used advanced logic.
 * We can add code inline in the templates.
 * We can do it in a way that we keep the original structure.

Cons:
 * Not natively designed for YAML. Access to other yaml values is not natural and requires
   some development code.

### Simple example

[This template is a basic example of ERB](https://gist.github.com/frodenas/6711234bab7a28d422b4)

### Proof of Concept: ERB

In the `erb/` folder we provide a script `myspiff.rb` to merge multiple files.

This script receives a list of files to processed in order, supporting these types:

  * `*.yml` plain yaml files,  will be loaded directly.
  * `*.erb.yml` ERB yaml files, will be processed by ERB and then loaded as YAML.
  * `*.rb` plain ruby, it will be evaluated directly. Good to define some variables.

Features:

 * Multiple files can be used to create a new manifest, the YAML structure will be simply loaded and merged
 * Search other YAML values:
    * A function called `search_yaml_values` allows search any yaml value in the processed files.
 * Does not keep the original structure, since the yaml is parsed.


To test it, check `erb/cf/` folder. You can run it with:

```
make erb
less erb/cf/generated.manifest-aws.yml
```


## Spiff

It is the tool used by cloudfoundry, but it is still in the incubator.

References:
 * [Blog describing how to work with spiff](https://blog.starkandwayne.com/2015/03/31/decomposing-bosh-manifests-with-spiff/)
 * [Spiff repository](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/spiff)
 * [Templates of offitial CF release using spiff](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release/tree/master/templates), and [script which calls them](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release/blob/master/generate_deployment_manifest)


Pros:
 * YAML native, with primitives to read different values.
 * Specific functions for CF: ip allocation, etc.
 * CF people use it in the official CF release.

Cons:
 * A little bit difficult to use and learn.
 * Buggy. Several bugs, like [this one](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/spiff/issues/27)
 * Does not keep the original structure and comments.
 * They say that is NOT being active development.
   > NOTE: Active development on spiff is currently paused, including Pull Requests. Very severe issues will be addressed, and we will still be actively responding to requests for help via Issues
 * Its future is not clear, and [some users abandon it](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/spiff/issues/27#issuecomment-56316106):
   > I've personally stopped using spiff for my own projects. I've found it's easier to just manage a single manifest file and force myself to keep that deployment manifest simple.
   >
   > Spiff is great when it's used for really simple things or internally-managed plumbing, but when you get into more complicated things like cf-release, with its many use-cases, it explodes in complexity. The potential for "wrong answers" from spiff increases, which is scary for deployment manifests.

### About the future of SPIFF

it is explained in this question in cf-dev: https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/thread/IFSYKSXRVYG6QPXM36ZZSRVBUKYQKNVZ/

### Proof of concept

In the folder `spiff/` we include two examples: `cf` and `bosh`.


The most complete example is `cf`. Comments about the code:

 * Spiff is called from `spiff/Makefile` tasks.
   * The files must be in order
   * Spiff evaluates from the last file to the first, merging the references backwards.
 * Terraform values are extracted by creating a terraform template in the `common/` file
 * jobs are split in multiple files in `spiff/cf/jobs/*.yml`
   * They use the feature `<<: (merge)` to include previous definitions (jobs and properties) in other files.
   * See `spiff/cf/jobs/nats.yml` for a more complex example.
 * The `spiff/cf/cf-manifest-main.yml` just selects the yaml nodes we want to keep in the final file.
 * `spiff/cf/cf-manifest-common.yml`: Common code skeleton
   * Properties are merged from other stubs using `<<: (merge)`
   * Example of string interpolation in the domain value.
 * The `director_uuid.yml` is generated by the Makefile
 * `cf-manifes-{gce,aws}.yml` have the specific values of each platform.
